So we're now gonna come to graphs,
graphs being usually the hardest, and
largest part of all algorithms.
Everything we've done up until
this point is effectively a graph.
I know, might be a hard pill to swallow.
There's that meme, hard pill to swallow,
everything's a graph.
This is always the terminus of
all these things cuz it's just,
there's so much to graph problems,
it's out of control.
I believe it was Euler, and I forget
what city, I think it's in Germany,
he was asked, hey, we have these seven
bridges and we want someone to be able to
walk over all the bridges once cuz we're
giving some king a tour or whatever.
And we wanna be able to uniquely walk over
all bridges and see all parts of the city,
but we can't figure it out.
We're gonna go hire
a mathematician known as Euler,
which most people don't realize that
this is pronounced Euler, that's Euler.
People call it Euler, it's Euler.
He came and said, okay,
I'm gonna figure this out.
And he reduced that problem literally
down to how we draw a graph problems to
this day.
He realized that the bridges or
connections,
each land area's just a circle.
So he's just like, here's the nodes,
here's the connections, and
came up with a principle effectively
stating that, if there is an odd amount of
connections into any one node you
can't do this type of traversal.
And so he kind of proved
that mathematically, sorry,
your city is incapable of doing this.
You're gonna have to do this differently.
And so, it was actually pretty cool.
It's a pretty cool thing,
you can read about it, but I didn't.
Out of the two algorithms book,
there's a third one that I've read and
that one told that story super neat,
very fantastic.
I'm sure I butchered a little bit of it,
but it's mostly correct, what I just said,
mostly correct.
All right,
it's not as good as the Hamilton draw the
equation of the quaternion while talking
to your mother-in-law,
that is the greatest story of them all.
But that is almost an imaginary story.
That's a really good joke if you get it.
It's a really good joke.
Okay, anyways, so, what is a graph?
A graph, as simple as it is put,
is a series of nodes with some
amount of connections, right?
There's no rules.
It's not like, you can only be top down.
It can only have a left or a right.
It's just, there's a lot of connections,
or some connections, or no connections.
So, there we go.
I just draw a graph, right?
That is a graph.
So there's a lot of terminology
when it comes to a graph.
And so let's kind of go through
all the terminology, blah, blah,
all trees are graphs.
So here's the terminology.
This is not obviously exhaustive,
but it should be enough for
us to be able to kind of communicate
about it for the rest of the day.
So a cycle, a cycle is as simple as this,
if I can start at A and
visit at least, I believe a cycle requires
three nodes for it to be a cycle.
Means that if I can visit a series
of nodes and going back to myself,
that should be considered a cycle.
So A to D is not considered
a cycle cuz it's only two nodes.
So A, to B, to C, to D, to A,
would be a cycle, right?
There we go.
We now have a cycle all the way through.
So that is a cycle, of course, and
our acyclic graph is an acycle,
a meaning not in this case.
So there is no cycles in the graph.
A connected graph means that every
node can reach every other node.
So a good example of this is,
if we had this, and
let's just say we actually had
a direction to this arrow, right?
E, E can reach no other nodes,
but every node can reach E.
So, therefore,
this is not a fully connected graph,
there's actually kind of two
sub parts to this graph, right?
We're not quite fully connected.
We're not gonna go over strongly connected
components, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
But just something to know about.
Directed, as I just showed right here is,
oops, as I showed right here,
is when you actually have
directions on your arrows.
Meaning that there
are one-way connections, or
the connections are asymmetric.
Let me give you an example.
Let's say that we have A connected to B.
First, I'll draw it like this.
I'll do that, that, to that.
It's kind of like an old
college trick right here.
And I can put a number up here and
a number down here.
Meaning if you go from A to B,
the weight's 20, or
the cost of that connection is 20.
If you go from B to A,
the cost of that connection is only 10.
And so you can have these weird asymmetric
relationships in a graph, it happens.
You could imagine traffic creates
an asymmetric contention on a highway.
If you lived in the bay area, you would
know that if you're coming from Netflix's
office going north up the 880,
it totally sucks at four o'clock.
Cuz everybody arrives to work, of course,
between the hours of eight to one, but
everybody leaves work at
four o'clock on the dot.
Bay Area, just the worst.
So that always happens.
So it creates this
asymmetric relationship.
So if you're going south,
you can go 100 miles an hour.
If you're going north, you can go five
miles an hour, it's just the worst.
So you get the idea, so
obviously Google Maps has this.
They have these changing weights
in which they know, hey,
if you're going this direction, it's much
slower than, say, the recommended speed,
but if you're going this direction,
people are going ten over.
So we may route you a different
way than you would expect.
All right, undirected, of course,
meaning that the links like these ones,
they don't have any direction associated
with them, you can go both ways.
Weighted, I just kind of went over that,
weighted.
They actually have some sort of value
associated with that connection.
In an undirected graph,
a weight would be for both directions,
it'd be a symmetric relationship.
Whereas in a directed graph,
it can be asymmetric.
Oopsies, a dag is kind of
like a pretty common phrase,
it means a directed acyclic graph.
So a good example of
a directed acyclic graph,
we could just draw one really quickly.
Remember, a cycle is when three nodes,
you can go back and forth.
So I could have something
that looks like this.
That's just fine.
And then we can do something like this.
There we go.
So there you go.
That would be a directed acyclic graph,
I believe.
Let me just make sure, right?
If you're at A, you can only go to D,
you can't go here, yep.
So there you go.
You kind of have this whole thing where
you can't quite make it to any other node,
everything has a terminus.
So B would be the closest,
which you could go all the way to here but
you can't go any further.
C, you can't even go anywhere,
poor C, pour one out for C.
Implementation terms, I will refer
to a node usually as a vertex.
I've seen them also referred to as
a point, but that's pretty rare.
But mostly vertex is kind of like
the Canonical term for a node in a graph.
You can also use the term node, but
that means when I'm doing Big O,
I'm gonna be using probably
V to describe the nodes.
This is the vertex, this is
the running time based on the vertex.
Second, an edge is the connection
betwixt two nodes, you get the idea.
So that means if we had a running
time of O times V, that means for
every vertex, we would visit
every single edge in the graph.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, I think that makes sense.
So there we go.
>> Do the vertices have weights, too, or?
>> Vertices have values, right?
I mean,
usually weights are only associated
with the traversal betwixt two nodes.
But in this case, you can put
whatever you want as the value, okay.